Everyone is doing their best.
I’m surprised this is the first time someone has requested that they write a novel using my manga.
Do they need my permission?
Yes. If they use Aoi’s copyrighted works to create new ones,
they must obtain Aoi’s permission.
Aoi, have you ever heard of the term “derivative work”?
Derivative work? I don’t know.
I’ll answer that for you. The Copyright Law
gives examples of various copyrighted works,
but it also defines a derivative work.
Derivative works under Article 2(1)(xi) of the Copyright Law
“The term ‘derivative work’ means a work
that a person creates by translating, composing a musical arrangement of, reformulating, dramatizing,
making a cinematographic adaptation of,
or otherwise adapting a pre-existing work.”
For derivative works, movies and manga based on novels
are the most famous.
That’s right. This story falls under the category
of adaptations here since Aoi’s work is a manga,
and they will write a novel based on it.
I haven’t heard much about adaptation,
so, what does it refer to?
Yes, I don’t think you hear that word very often in everyday life.
The work from which the derivative work is derived is called the
original work and the adapted work is called a derivative work.
An adaptation means creating another copyrighted work that can directly perceive the “essential characteristics
of the expression of the original work” by modifying, increasing,
reducing, or altering the specific expressions.
It can directly perceive the essential characteristics
of the expression...? It’s abstract.
That’s right. First, to be recognized as a derivative work,
the identity of the “essential characteristics of the expression”
of the original work must be maintained.
As we alter the original work in various ways,
the identity of the essential characteristics of
the original work will no longer be maintained elsewhere.
If the identity of the essential characteristics of the expression
is no longer maintained, it does not constitute a derivative work.
If it’s not a derivative work, what is it?
Suppose the identity of the essential characteristics of the
original work is no longer maintained.
In that case, it is a new work that is different from the original
work if it has creativity.
On the other hand, in addition to maintaining the identity of the
essential characteristics of the original work with new creativity,
it will be a derivative work.
It isn’t easy to understand.
I wish it was explained a little more clearly.
Let me explain a specific example.
This time, Aoi’s manga depicts the daily life and love
between the main character, a girl, and four boys.
For example, what do you think would happen
to the copyright of a manga like this,
where only the abstract settings of the characters are the same, but the characteristics of the characters, such as their names
and personalities, and the content of the descriptions of specific
scenes are entirely different?
If the contents are entirely different, even though
the settings are the same, it is a different work, right?
Yes. Even though the abstract settings of the persons are the
same, if the contents of the manga are entirely different,
it is a different work.
Let’s say that some of the contents of the manga are the same.
However, what if the same content remains based on common
expressions, historical facts, and data,
and the content of other creative parts differs?
I have heard that common expressions and data are not
copyrighted works. Therefore, I think this is a different work.
Yes. Since the contents of the creative parts are different,
in this case, they can be other works.
Next, in addition to the specific setting of the characters drawn
in Aoi’s manga being the same,
what about the copyrighted works that trace the portrayal of
various particular events
and situations and the development
of stories?
In that case, it would be a copyrighted work based on Aoi’s
manga.
Yes. In this case, since the creative expression of Aoi’s manga
is maintained,
we can directly perceive the “essential characteristics
of the expression” of the original work.
This time, we are turning the manga into a novel,
in other words, changing the form of expressions
and adding creative expressions.
In this case, it will be an ‘adaptation’ and a derivative work.
I see. So, the key point is to see if Aoi’s manga’s creative
expression is maintained as in the novel.
I’m starting to understand a little better what it means to directly
perceive the essential characteristics of an expression.
Here is the next point.
A derivative work cannot be made without the permission from
the author of the original work.
The Copyright Law states as follows.
Article 27 (Translation Rights, Adaptation Rights,
and Other Rights)
“The author of a work has the exclusive right to translate it,
compose a musical arrangement, reformulate it, dramatize it,
make a cinematographic adaptation,
or otherwise adapt the work.”
Okay. That’s why my friend asked me for permission.
That’s right.
What about the rights of derivative works that have been
licensed by the original author?
Without the original work, no derivative work can be created.
Therefore, in the case of derivative works, the rights are given
not only to the copyright owner of the derivative work,
but also to the copyright owner of the original work.
Specifically, the Copyright Law stipulates the following.
Article 28 (Rights of the Original Author in Connection with the
Exploitation of a Derivative Work)
“The author of the original work underlying a derivative work
holds exclusive rights in the same categories as the rights
prescribed in this Subsection that the author of the derivative
work holds in connection with the exploitation of that derivative
work.”
For example, when using a derivative work, obtaining a license
from the copyright owners of the derivative work
and the original work is necessary.
Now that you know this much, let’s look at the terms and
conditions of the novel submission site.
Aoi, what were the conditions for submitting derivative works?
It seems that the content is different on various posting sites.
On this new website, when derivative works are posted,
the consent of the copyright owner of the original work is
necessary.
In addition, the author’s name of the original work is also
included in the author’s column of published novels as the
original author.
In addition, if the original work has already been released to the
public, it seems necessary to post the public information as well.
Yes, I think you get the gist of the situation now.
In order to create a derivative work, permission from the
copyright owner of the original work is required.
Each posting site has a different policy on how to confirm that.
Based on what I researched, I think I was able to confirm
how the novel will be published.
Based on this information Aoi, you may want to decide whether
or not you will allow your friend to turn your manga into a novel.
Yes, I see. I’ll think about it.